i wasn't so lucky if i had some crazy
hospital bill there's a good chance i'd
be in rehab or dead
once drugs loses the taboo which is
going to be soon because it's getting
more legal we got to collectively change
the way we scare kids into staying sober
because all that fear-mongering just
makes it seem more fun
you shouldn't be afraid of drugs frying
your brain sober isn't smarter
sober's playing the game honestly you
should stay sober because the
alternative is cheating you're like that
kid who jail broke his ipod touch to
hack flappy bird
you know yeah you got the high score but
you ain't earn it
and you know it definitely not a fun way
to play this
but for you guys out there that want to
just get a high score and then share it
with your friends and
and just trick your friends into
thinking that you're good at flappy bird
then you can go ahead and use this trick
i want to warn the kids rotation
thinking about taking a puff because
nobody explained this to me
the worst part about drugs are the
benefits you got nothing to do with the
health defects
what makes drugs dangerous is knowing
the cheat codes to the game
doing as many drugs as i do i probably
don't recommend them i don't recommend
them to anyone if you're sober i don't
recommend starting to do drugs because
it just changes your perspective on how
you approach life
but i know the cheat codes i can't
unlearn them no amount of yoga and
meditation
will make you forget how [ __ ] awesome
being high is
that feeling is attainable without drugs
but it's just so much easier
best feeling i've ever experienced in
life was sex on mali
i bet those white guys that spend months
climbing mount everest and then make it
to the top
and take that pick with ice in their
beard they felt at the top of the
mountain what i felt in that hotel at
3am
but those white guys earned it they
prepared for weeks and suffered through
freezing temperatures
i was just bored on a thursday why climb
an ice mountain when you can snort one
now every day is a constant battle with
my brain because i'm a dopamine fiend
dopamine is a cool way of saying
idiot i'm just inherently not like the
successful people i know the people i
know on track to be multi-millionaires
if they're not already
are all stone cold sober you believe
that
you think i'm exaggerating but i'm not
at all the guys i mentioned are all
early 20s and won't even sip a beer
doing as many drugs as i do i probably
don't recommend them i don't recommend
them to anyone
[Music]
a lot of people will tell you that we
live in a society
that is more tolerant than ever towards
drug addicts
i'm here to tell you the exact opposite
i think we live in a society that's
based on a kind of apartheid
apartheid is not tolerance
all right when you have black people
living in one part of society
white people living in another part of
society this is not
that one group is tolerated the
existence of the other
right they're living separately
and unequally right
can say that you tolerate
drug addicts meaning what meaning you're
not
actively trying to capture them arrest
them
put them in prison be a bit like saying
you know
in south africa white people tolerated
black people just because they're not
trying to commit genocide against them
if you tell me you tolerate drug addicts
when you hire a babysitter what's the
first thing you need to know
about that babysitter that they're not a
drug user that they're not a drug addict
and if if you hire a babysitter when
they are 16 years old which is common
in our culture for whatever reason to
hire people as teenagers to babysitters
rather than in their 40s 50s or 60s
i think on some level you know
they might not be a drug addict at 16
but you keep employing them for a couple
years
when they're 17 or 18 they might become
a drug addict they might become
an alcoholic and you're still watching
for it because when you hire someone
to be a babysitter you are hiring them
to sleep on your couch
to eat in your kitchen to take care of
your children
you are trusting them with all the most
delicate things
in your life and the one thing above all
else
that makes them untrustworthy
is drug addiction
consciously or unconsciously
as we live in a society that tolerates
more and more drug use and more and more
drug addicts i think in reality
we become a society that is more
apprehensive of and more
judgmental of the most subtle
indications that someone is a drug user
or a drug addict because the moment we
perceive that about them
it's like their name is scratched off a
list right
they're removed from the social cast of
people
who can be police officers who can be
pilots
or who can even be babysitters and they
are relegated
to the social cast of people who can
never be trusted
sneako is a guy who's using a lot of
drugs
and in the past five years
has used a lot of drugs and the most
pathetic thing of
all is he thinks he's getting away with
it
he thinks other people can't see it in
him
right but i think it's something we've
all become very cynical about
it's something we've all become very
well informed of
the subtle signs when you look in
someone's eyes
or you hear their voice that they are a
drug user
or that they are a drug addict and
sometimes you may be wrong
you may know someone who lost a lot of
weight
because they got on a vegan diet you may
know someone who lost a lot of weight
because they got malaria they got some
illness that
resolved them losing weight you may know
someone who got skinny for some totally
unrelated reason
right but you may respond to those
things apprehensively
with the false and negative assumption
that they're on drugs
flipping it around you know there's the
whole question
of what you're not doing with your life
what you're
not cultivating because you are on drugs
because those are the people
you spend your time around that's what
you spend your time doing
those are the excuses you carry with you
and you live with
right i had an older brother
and he talked to my dad
about his struggle to be taken seriously
his struggle to be
respected at the university uh by a
professor who was basically his
supervisor in getting a master's degree
so i heard about this through broken
telephone my brother complains to my dad
and then my dad
tells the story to me so you know
there's some level of
reinvention and remixing that goes on
along the way
but i said to my father look
you're telling this story in a way that
just fundamentally doesn't make any
sense
because my brother the brother you're
talking about the minute he walks into a
room
the minute he opens his mouth the minute
he starts talking
the first impression absolutely everyone
has about him
is that he's a burnout the first
impression he makes
on everyone his professors included
is that he is a long term
drug addict and in this case
the first impression is dead right
because that's what he is
and he can get a master's degree and he
can get a phd
but nobody is ever going to hire him to
be their babysitter
nobody would ever feel comfortable
walking onto an airplane talking to my
brother
feeling happy and safe and secure that
they're going to be a passenger
with this guy flying the plane you think
oh
my god this guy's the pilot if this
guy's the pilot
i don't want to get on this plane if
my brother somehow ended up putting on a
police uniform
and interrogating you the minute you
heard his voice or started interacting
with them
whoa this this guy's a cop
you can tell
we talk about tolerance but i think all
of us
are becoming more and more sensitive to
and more judgmental about and more
apprehensive of
the smallest signs of lifelong
drug addiction and then there's the
question of
all the books you're not reading all the
stuff
you're not learning because this is what
you do with your time
this is what you do with your life
all right sneako speaks fairly
eloquently
about the way in which the drug high
becomes the only thing he thinks is
worth
living for and it's pathetic
he says he's he's straining to be
profound
he says that he thinks he could get the
same kind of high
the same kind of ebullient joy by
climbing a mountain and getting to the
top of the mountain and taking a selfie
with icicles in his beard now he's wrong
he's never done it he's never tried i
doubt he's ever talked to anyone
who's done that kind of work it's just
wrong but he imagines
that he could get the same kind of high
out of that that he gets out of
having sex while on mind altering drugs
okay and he admits that he is motivated
to
and he lives his whole life just for
that kind of high
the problem he sees with drugs is that
they make it
too easy for him to achieve it
so my my brother who went into the
master's degree program
and was so disrespected by his professor
what kind of person instead would walk
into the room and talk to that professor
and and push respect and earn that
professor's respect and demand that
professorship put that professor in a
position
where he can't help but respect you
right
it's not just sobriety it's not just not
being a drug addict
right it would be the accumulation of
many years of reading and research
and questioning right that adds some
kind of weight
some kind of ballast to the things you
say
and the questions you ask now i've had
the experience many times
and it often amuses me where
i walk into a room there's nothing
extraordinary about my appearance
in the particular room and i ask a very
simple question
that doesn't give away really anything
about my depth
of knowledge of how much research i've
done i may have done more research than
the professor
i'm asking the question to but the
professor himself or herself
and everyone in the room picks up on
whoa this guy knows what he's talking
about
one of the most dramatic i was in
thailand
this was the first time i ever met
professor gonbridge
so gombrich is a famous and infamous
figure in buddhist studies very powerful
academic
very famous published books phd and so
on
um you know a situation where it's a big
crowd and you have to walk up to the
microphone and
which turn to speak at a microphone to
ask that's a question and
and i don't know i don't know if gomberg
thinks he has a poker face or keeps he
he thinks he keeps his uh cards
close to his chest but there had been
one question after another that he was
totally exasperated with he was openly
showing that he thought these people
were idiots
and he said like
and in one case he actually reproached
the person asking the question
he basically said he would have never
gotten a question this stupid at a
muslim conference
with muslim scholars he was only getting
this question with buddhist scholars
interesting moment so he's he's openly
exasperated
anyway i stand up and ask a question
it's not it's not directed at garbage
directed someone else
and he got out of his seat he was so
excited and he pointed at me and he
asked people who is that
who's that guy that guy
he was right he was right and uh
you know we met after the after the
proceedings were over we had dinner that
night and we became
we became friends for what was it one
year two years before he decided he
hated me
which is in character for gambridge he's
that he's that kind of guy if he'll
write his autobiography would be a long
series of uh
short intense friendships followed by
years of
hatred anyway i don't i don't hate
gobridge back but yeah
quite a quite a carrot and i once i once
uh got a story from my dad
from my father where he was giving a
lecture at a university that i attended
there were 30 or 40 people in the crowd
and he said to me when i was over he
said you have no idea how terrifying it
is
to give a lecture when you are in the
audience
because he said even if you're not
saying anything even when you're just
silent
i can tell from the look in your eyes i
can tell that you're
following the argument of what i'm
saying and i can tell that you're
scrutinizing it
and that you know what's what's wrong
with it you're finding fault even if
you're silent
and he said in the other students in the
audience with that particular
lecture this was true he said the other
students the audience they're sitting
there like
cows they you know the look in their
eyes like cows
uh chewing cut i have given a few
university lectures myself
so i i have some experience i have some
experience with this uh
with the child the cows chewing cut
inside of it i definitely have uh
some experience with that you know and i
just i want to be fair at all sides here
the drug addict thing the background
with drugs and alcohol
it's not the only reason why a professor
why a bureaucrat
why a policeman why an authority figure
will dismiss and denigrate
your opinion i have a lot of experience
with good-looking women
and back when they were good-looking or
cute
teenagers they got real used to just
walking into a room
and throwing a tantrum and complaining
making no effort at all
to make their own perspective
respectable or respected
they just go in and pour out their
feelings and complain and
kick their feet and you know act like a
kid
promise it didn't stop when they were
kid right they kept doing that at 14 15
16 17 18 28
right and nobody ever sat them down and
talked and said look
if you want to walk into the room and
push respect
if you want to walk in the room and earn
other people's respect you know this is
how you have to do it this is
this is the level of effort you have to
make
right but the thing is for guys like
sneako
for guys like my brother okay even if my
brother gets a master's degree
anybody gets a phd okay i think they can
never overcome
the cognitive deficit they have brought
in their lives
through drug addiction i don't think
they can ever
overcome comment all right
there is no way you can act
there's no mannerism you can
consciously cultivate or dissimulate
that will cover up the fact that you're
a crackhead
okay being a burnout
talking in that strange monotone whether
it is from lsd
or psychiatric medicines or marijuana or
mdma or all of the above and with most
of these guys it's a combination
of all the above it's not something you
can dissimulate
your way out of it's not something you
can just make an effort to overcome
and all the years you spent
partying all the hours
you spent making excuses for your
drugged up
friends right
there's no way now you can turn that
around
and fill up that time with the kind of
reading questioning self-cultivation
self-development that would make you the
kind of person
who walks into a room and earns
that respect there's no way now
you can make yourself into somebody i
would hire
to be my babysitter
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice
yes